# send-email-api-sam-app

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- sendEmail - Code for the application's Lambda function.
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- tests - Unit tests for the application code. 
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

The application uses several AWS resources, including Lambda functions and an API Gateway API. These resources are defined in the `template.yaml` file in this project. You can update the template to add AWS resources through the same deployment process that updates your application code.

## Verifying email addresses
The first step is to verify any email addresses that emails are going to be sent to.

To send a verfication email to any email address run 
```
python verify_email.py
```
Enter email address when prompted. 

[Verifying an Email Address by AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ses/latest/DeveloperGuide/verify-email-addresses-procedure.html)

AWS will not send any emails to an unverfied email address

## Deploy the application

The Serverless Application Model Command Line Interface (SAM CLI) is an extension of the AWS CLI that adds functionality for building and testing Lambda applications. It uses Docker to run your functions in an Amazon Linux environment that matches Lambda. It can also emulate your application's build environment and API.

To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

* AWS CLI - [Install the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html) and [configure it with your AWS credentials].
* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* [Python 3 installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

The SAM CLI uses an Amazon S3 bucket to store your application's deployment artifacts. If you don't have a bucket suitable for this purpose, create one. Enter a unique bucket name when prompted.

```bash
./make_s3_bucket.sh
```

To prepare the application for deployment, use the `sam package` command.

```bash
sam package \
    --output-template-file packaged.yaml \
    --s3-bucket BUCKET_NAME
```

The SAM CLI creates deployment packages, uploads them to the S3 bucket, and creates a new version of the template that refers to the artifacts in the bucket. 

To deploy the application, use the `sam deploy` command.

```bash
sam deploy \
    --template-file packaged.yaml \
    --stack-name sendEmailStack \
    --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM
```

After deployment is complete you can run the following bash_script to retrieve the API Gateway Endpoint URL:

```bash
./get_invocation_url.sh
``` 

Run `./send_email.sh` to send an email

## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Build your application with the `sam build` command.

```bash
sam-app$ sam build
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `hello_world/requirements.txt`, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

## Add a resource to your application
The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
sam-app$ sam logs -n SendEmailFunction --stack-name sendEmailStack --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `tests` folder in this project. Use PIP to install the [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) and run unit tests.

```bash
sam-app$ pip install pytest pytest-mock --user
sam-app$ python -m pytest tests/ -v
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application and the bucket that you created, use the AWS CLI.

```bash
sam-app$ aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name sendEmailStack
sam-app$ aws s3 rb s3://BUCKET_NAME
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)
